README.md, before:

# TLPS (Toy Language Processing System)

![workflow status](https://github.com/goropikari/tlps/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg)

TLPS is a toy language processing system for me to study.
TLPS adopts [Off-side rule](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Off-side_rule) like python.



```
git clone https://github.com/goropikari/tlps
cd tlps
docker build -t tlps .
docker run -it tlps
```

Architecture is based on jlox (tree-walk interpreter) by [munificent/craftinginterpreters](https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters).


```
// declare variable
var x = 10; // terminal ';' is optional

var こんにちは = "Hello World"
print(こんにちは) // => Hello World

// if statement
if expr:
  statements
elseif expr:
  statements
else:
  statements

// while loop
while expr:
  statements

// for loop
for var i = 0; i < 5; i = i + 1:
  print(i)

// function
fun fib(n):
  if n <= 1:
    return n
  return fib(n-1) + fib(n-2)

// closure
fun makeCounter():
  var i = 0
  fun count():
    i = i + 1
    return i
  return count

var counter = makeCounter()
print(counter()) // => 1
print(counter()) // => 2

# class
# there is no class variable
class Hoge:
  pass

class Hoge:
  hoge(x, y):
    pass

class Hoge:
  init(x, y):
    this.x = x
    this.y = y

class Hoge:
  piyo(x, y):
    print(x + y)

var h = Hoge()
h.name = "hoge piyo" // instance variable can define anytime
print(h.name) // => hoge piyo

// indentation can be used for if branch, loop body and function body
var x = 1
  var y = 1  // indentation error
```

# Todo

- [x] escape sequence
- [x] detect IndentationError
- [ ] import another tlps file
- [ ] support IO

Commit message:

support importing another file
他のファイルを読み込めるようにした。ファイルの指定方法は常に絶対パスに
すれば実装は簡単そうだったけど、実用性を考えると不便そうだったので
相対パスで指定する方式にした。
include を呼んでいるファイルを基準とした相対パスにするのが地味に
難しかった。
native function として定義したかったけど、Runtime にデータを書き換えないと
いけなかったので諦めた。

README.md, after:

# TLPS (Toy Language Processing System)

![workflow status](https://github.com/goropikari/tlps/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg)

TLPS is a toy language processing system for me to study.
TLPS adopts [Off-side rule](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Off-side_rule) like python.



```
git clone https://github.com/goropikari/tlps
cd tlps
docker build -t tlps .
docker run -it tlps
```

Architecture is based on jlox (tree-walk interpreter) by [munificent/craftinginterpreters](https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters).


```
// declare variable
var x = 10; // terminal ';' is optional

var こんにちは = "Hello World"
print(こんにちは) // => Hello World

// if statement
if expr:
  statements
elseif expr:
  statements
else:
  statements

// while loop
while expr:
  statements

// for loop
for var i = 0; i < 5; i = i + 1:
  print(i)

// function
fun fib(n):
  if n <= 1:
    return n
  return fib(n-1) + fib(n-2)

// closure
fun makeCounter():
  var i = 0
  fun count():
    i = i + 1
    return i
  return count

var counter = makeCounter()
print(counter()) // => 1
print(counter()) // => 2

# class
# there is no class variable
class Hoge:
  pass

class Hoge:
  hoge(x, y):
    pass

class Hoge:
  init(x, y):
    this.x = x
    this.y = y

class Hoge:
  piyo(x, y):
    print(x + y)

var h = Hoge()
h.name = "hoge piyo" // instance variable can define anytime
print(h.name) // => hoge piyo

// include another file
include "another.tlps" // path is relative path from the file which describe include statement

// indentation can be used for if branch, loop body and function body
var x = 1
  var y = 1  // indentation error
```

# Todo

- [x] escape sequence
- [x] detect IndentationError
- [x] import another file
  - [ ] detect circular import
- [ ] support varargs
- [ ] support IO
